There are several software packages
available that will handle the details
of MCMC for us.
We've provided a supplementary document
to this lesson which gives an outline,
a brief outline of the different
options available to you.
The package we will use
in this course is JAGS.
Which stands for Just Another Gibbs
Sampler written by Martyn Plummer.
The program is free and
it runs on Mac OS, Windows and Linux.
Better yet, the program can be run using
R from the RJAGS or R2JAGS packages.
In JAGS, we can specify models and
run MCMC samplers with
just a few lines of code.
JAGS does the rest for us so we can focus
more on the statistical modeling aspect,
and less on the implementation.
It makes powerful basin
machinery available to us.
So, we consider] wide variety of
statistical models relatively easily.
The starting place for
JAGS users is this website,
mcmc.jags.sourceforge.net.
At this site, you can find news about the
features of the latest release of JAGS,
links to program documentation,
as well as instructions for installation.
The documentation for
JAGS is particularly important to us.
It is available under
the files page right here.
We'll open that up under
the manuals folder.
We're going to use
the latest version of JAGS,
we'll look at four here, and
we'll download the Jags user manual.
We've already downloaded it, so
let's take a look at the JAGS user manual.
The user manual has a lot of useful
information including how to run models
Different modules available,
the functions available to us in
the JAGS language as well as
probability distributions.
Chapters 5 and 6 will be especially
important to us, as we model.
Let's take a look at chapter
6 in distributions, page 29.
This chapter documents
all of the statistical
probability distributions
that we can use in JAGS.
We will refer back to this often, because
it shows us the functions that correspond
with the different distributions and
how they're parameterized.
For example, notice that in jags,
the normal distribution is parameterized
differently than in it is in R.
We need to keep that in
mind while we're modeling.
Let's go back to the web page.
And start from the beginning again.
Under the files page, again down here.
We'll find the JAGS folder.
This is where we can download and
install the latest version of JAGS,
in this case, four.
From here,
you can select your operating system and
follow the directions to download and
install JAGS.
Once JAGS is installed, we can immediately
run it from R using the R JAGS package.
The next segment we'll
show how this is done